# I3S meeting notes

## 27 September 2019: progress meeting


### Progress report

#### WP1

Finally, ARC is Service 1 and the corresponding [deliverable](https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/cros/content/i3s-d121-service-1_en) is published. For service 2 we can wait before deciding which one it will be. Service 2 must be delivered in November, and Service 3 in March 2020.

##### ARC-Relais

Istat has been working on the new Relais:

  * The software will be shared next week; the code has been updated on GitHub. A mail to everyone will announce the new version.
  * A document on the Relais database model and an user guide are being written.

Regarding ARC:

  * The development is very active, as can be seen on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/InseeFr/ARC).
  * The reuse case for ARC in Istat still needs to be refined.

##### PXWeb

  * The .NET version of PXWeb is now open source, and it is planned to convert it to .NET Core so that it can run on Linux, but this is a big investment. A basic .NET Core conversion could be realized for March 2020, but more time will be needed for a complete version.
  * There is no problem with publishing a Windows version if later in the project we publish the .NET Core version. A Windows container is deployable on the WP3 platform.
  * So, Relais could be Service 2 (to be discussed during the Paris meeting next week). If not, PXWeb for .NET would be Service 2, but a new version would be realeased when the .NET Core version is available.


##### Guidelines on the best practices (deliverable D1.5)

  * Istat shared a template for the document in August, but there is still work to be done.
  * It is desirable that best practices cover all the project, not only the developing activities. It is proposed to have a track during the Toulouse hackathon in order to summarize all the experiments.
  * Istat will improve a few sections of the D1.5 draft before a new publication by mid-October.

#### WP2

  * The discussion on WP1 and WP2 overlaps has begun and should be continued during the Toulouse hackathon.
  * The draft versions of the architectural guidelines and the cookbook have been delivered. Now it is planned to update these documents and to mention CSPA in the architectural document.
  * In October, a mini sprint between Sweden and Norway will take place in order to align on the recommandations.
  * Reminder: send videos from the Rome hackathon: only one was received so far.

#### WP3

  * First delivery slip delivered for the packaging of Service 1
  * The blueprint is being implemented. Terraform is used for creating the platform, and Kubernetes for deploying the containers.
  * SSB Norway will use its Google account fot the cloud platform.

#### WP4

  * No news from INE. Deliverable D4.1 and the final version of the questionnaire should have been delivered.
  * Insee has elaborated a flyer about the JDemetra+ success story. In November, during a DIGICOM meeting in Brussels, a video of the JDemetra+ team will be made.
  * It is proposed to make the same things (flyer and video) for ARC, Relais and PXWeb.
  * Istat proposes the idea of a bookmark.
  * Where will the videos be published? In the CSPA catalogue?

#### WP5

  * Ideas of events for communication of the ESSnet works can be added by all on the wiki.
  * We could do a software demo during [ICES VI](https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/ices/2020/). That sould be submitted before December.
  * More theoretical presentations can be made during [Quality 2020](http://www.q2020.hu/).


### Preparation of the Toulouse hackathon

#### Participants

The following participants are confirmed:

  * Istat: 3 participants, names to be provided shortly
  * Norway: Trygve and Rune
  * Sweden: Jakob, Henrik and Hakim, plus another person financed by Eurostat
  * France: Franck, Benoît, Romain, Manuel, Nicolas (from Tuesday to Thursday)
  * Portugal: ?
  * experts: Hadrien (from Tuesday to Thursday) and one or two people from CBS
  * Eurostat: Pierre and Mihai

Everybody will participate to the social activities (dinner and visit).

#### Agenda

The [provisional agenda](../toulouse-hackathon/agenda.md) should be refined, and names of persons in charge for each session decided.

List of tracks:
  * a track on communication kit (resp.: Antonio, or Benoît)
  * a track on architecture (resp.: Jakob)
  * a track on development, will be discussed during the Paris mini-hackathon regarding the functionalities to be developed (resp.:  Romain)
  * a track or a specific presentation on Friday morning on the notebooks (resp.: Norway)
  * intermezzo (Wednesday afternoon): CSPA and I3S, articulations between both initiatives (resp.: Matjaz or Ronald)
  * a session for evaluating the deliverables ?

### Budget

The budget is currently under-consumed, Insee will provide information on the degrees of freedom (switch budget between members or between types of resources).
