# I3S meeting notes

## 27 September 2019: progress meeting


### Progress report

#### WP1

##### ARC-Relais

* The new Relais Software will be shared next week. The code has been updated on github. A mail to everyone will announce the new version.
* A document on the relais database model and an user guide are being written. The database model is getting more comprehensible.

##### PXWeb

* Finally, ARC will be Service 1. For service 2 we can wait before deciding which one it will be. Service 2 must be delivered in November, and Service 3 in March.
* PXWeb is now opensource, and is being converted to .Net core in order to execute it on Linux, but it is a big investment. Do we want a Windows container at this stage ? March is possible for basic .Net core conversion. So, Relais could be Service 2 (to be discussed during the next week hackathon in Paris).
* There is no problem with publishing a Windows version if later in the project we publish the .Net core version.
A Windows container is deployable on the WP3 platform.

##### ARC

* The reuse case for ARC is not yet refined.

##### Guidelines on the best practices (WP1.5)

* In August Istat shared a template for the document, there is stil work to be done.
* It is wished to give an overview of all the project. It is proposed to have a track during the Toulouse hackathon in order to summarize all the experiments (not only the developing activities).
* A few sections of the WP1.5 draft will be improved to improve a few sections before publishing (in 2 weeks, mid-october).

#### WP2

* The discussion on WP1 and WP2 overlaps has begun and should be continued during the Toulouse Hackathon.
* The draft versions of the architectural guidelines and the cookbook have been delivered. Now it is planned to update these documents and to mention CSPA in the architectural document.
* In october, a mini sprint with Norway in order to align on the recommandations will take place.
* Sweden SSB needs some video material. Only one has been received so far. The idea was to have some videos from the hackathons.

#### WP3

* First delivery slip for the packaging of Service 1
* The blueprint is being implemented. Terraform is used for creating the platform, and ?? for deploying the cotnainers.
* SSB Norway will use its Google account fot the cloud platform.

#### WP4

* No news from INE. Deliverable WP4.1 and the final version of the questionnaire should have been delivered.
* Insee has elaborated a flyer about the jDemetra+ success story. In november, during a Digicom meeting in Bruxelles, a video of the jDemetra+ team will be made.
* It is proposed to make the same things (flyer and video) for ARC, Relais and PXWeb.
* Istat proposes the idea of a bookmark.
* Where will the videos be published ? In the CSPA catalogue ?

#### WP5

* If ideas of events, members can add them to the wiki
* ICES VI (https://ww2.amstat.org/meetings/ices/2020/). If we want to make a software demonstration, it must be proposed before December.
* ICES 2020 if or more practical presentations and Quality 2020 for more theoretical presentations.

### Preparation of the Toulouse hackathon

#### Participants


#### Logistics and practical subjects



#### Agenda

The [provisional agenda](../toulouse-hackathon/agenda.md) should be refined, and names of persons in charge for each session decided.

List of tracks :
* a track on communication kit (resp.: Antonio, or Benoît)
* a track on architecture (resp.:  Jakob)
* a track on development, will be discussed during the next week hackathon for the functionalities to be developed (resp.:  Romain)
* a track or a specific presentation on Friday morning on the notebooks ? (resp.: Norway)
* intermezzo (Wednesday afternoon) : CSPA and I3S, articulations between both initiatives (resp.: Matjaz or Ronald)
* a session for evaluating the deliverables ?

### Budget

* The budget is under consumed, is it possible to switch budget between members ?
