# I3S meeting notes

## 28 November 2019: INE-Istat-Insee trilateral meeting


### Participants

INE: Sónia & Pedro
Istat: Pina
Insee: Benoît & Franck


### Subjects discussed

Status of the tasks that had to be developed until this meeting:

  * Italy sent suggestions on the survey in time. Some of them were accepted but some didn’t.
  * The web survey was submitted on the programed schedule. The countries that already submitted their answers were: Luxembourg, Malta, Lithuania, Austria and Hungary.
  * The survey was announced by e-mail and sent to the list of respondents.
  * The guidelines on the Success Stories for each group of users was sent on November 27th by Portugal based on the ideas already discussed in the group.
  * The draft of the flier of ARC to be presented in Toulouse by France is already in progress.
  * Italy sent the flier on RELAIS to be presented in Toulouse.
  * There was a first contact with the Swedish colleagues but not yet to make a flier about PxWeb.


### To do

France is doing another approach on the JDemetra+ success story. They will use other media using the guidelines already discussed. France is doing also an ARC flier.

It was suggested that Italy could also do another approach on the RELAIS, maybe a more technical one with video and screenshots of RELAIS workflow.

Pedro and Benoît will discuss by e-mail what to do in WP4 track in Toulouse Hackathon. When they have some suggestions they will share with the rest of the group.

Portugal will fill October and November reports.

Italy and France will review and make suggestions on Success Stories Guidelines.

About WP1, Italy is considering to use open source tools for the software test. As they are concerned about overlapping between WP1 guidelines and WP2 deliverables, they suggest to discuss about this topic during the hackathon in Toulouse.

The second service must be available before the end of the year. Although Portugal will not use PxWeb, some reports were done about installation and software comparisons. Portugal will translate those documents to English so that they can be used as input for the report on the re-use of the service.


### Next meeting

December 19th - 16:30 CET.

Agenda:

  * Survey results
  * Success stories Guidelines 
  * New “media” on the success stories: JDemetra+, ARC, RELAIS
  * Status of the communication with Sweden
  * Preparing Toulouse Hackathon
