# I3S meeting notes

## 8 April 2019: progress meeting


### Progress report

#### WP1

##### ARC-Relais

A virtual meeting between Istat and Insee was organized in order to specifying the integration of Relais and ARC. The "As-Is" architecture for Relais is modelled, and talks will be conducted with the developers of Relais in order to define the "To-Be" architecture.

The ARC architecture is also defined, and there is a clear view on how the tools might be combined. Most of the integrating phase could be done by ARC, which could integrate the record linking capability of Relais. There are still technical questions to study, as well as questions regarding the various constraints. The questions will be finally answered during the Rome Hackathon, but it is important to continue the work in the meantime. Business aspects should also be agreed upon before the hackathon.

Insee is planning internal reuses of ARC for other statistical processes, in particular for integrating business surveys and fiscal data.

##### PXWeb

No progress made. According to the roadmap established in Paris, most of the work until now should have been done by INE, but there was no contact. Insee will follow up with António.


#### WP2

Not much progress made since the Paris meeting. Theoretical work will begin this week, and SCB will hopefully have something to present in Rome.


#### WP3

Work has just started doing around Vagrant and Docker. A meeting will take place on Friday: see if Romain and Frédéric can be associated.


#### WP4

INE is not attending.


#### WP5

Expected deliverables have been produced (a bit late for quarterly report, waiting for all contributions). The light monthly reporting is useful, [next update](../reporting/2019-04.md) should be made next week.

The contribution for the ModernStats World Workshop has to be precised: see with Jakob if a presentation of the ESSnet is possible in the "New developments" session. There is sufficient matter to make a presentation: descritpion of work packages, list of services, first reflections on the architecture, preliminary results, roadmap, etc. Posters for ARC/Relais could also be made for the "Market place" session.


### Preparation of the Rome hackathon

#### Participants

Consortium members should confirm the list of their participants by answering Pina's mail before Friday. Regarding the external experts: Romain and Adrien Kohl (proposed by Norway) are confirmed, waiting for definitive answer from Matjaž Jug.


####  Logistics and practical subjects

Nothing of note in addition to the factsheet provided by Istat, except that participants should avoid metro line A.

#### Agenda

The [provisional agenda](../rome-hackathon/agenda.md) proposes names of persons in charge for each session, who will be responsible for organizing and chairing the session. The suggestions are validated.

Regarding the sessions:
  * Monday afternoon: "high-level topics" could include pratical use cases, requirements for re-use, etc.
  * Matjaž could make a presentation on sharing algorithms, also on the Monday afternoon.
  * Discussions on the Geneva presentation, if any, could also be held on Monday afternoon.
  * Tuesday sessions agendas need to be detailed by their respective chairs (Jakob and Mauro)
  * Insee will follow up with INE to see if Track 3 can take place


### Budget

All consortium members should answer Valérie's message by the end of the week. Only rough estimates are needed at that stage.