# I3S meeting notes

## 28 April 2020: Istat-Insee webconference on ARC-Relais integration


### Participants

Istat: Pina, Francesco, Mauro
Insee: Manuel, Romain, Franck


### Subjects discussed

  * Use of R

Istat implemented [Renjin](https://www.renjin.org/). Insee can start testing on large files. Istat will send guidance for tuning Java memory parameters.

  * Data Model

Istat has a constraint about fixed schemas that prevents the implementation of the model agreed upon in Toulouse. On the other hand, Insee considers that the new model is required for ARC. It is thus necessary to work on a solution supporting both models via abstraction, parametrization or other techniques.

  * Call of web services from IS2

Istat needs to works a bit more on refining and documenting the interface, but the feature is OK for Insee. Istat will implement the interface for Relais and Insee will finish the implementation partially done in Toulouse.

  * Reuse of ARC

Istat will start to work on a reuse of ARC in a national accounts context, with CSV files from 2 years ago. When the lockdown is finished, the I3S team will contact their national accounts colleagues in order to work of the productionalization.

  * Virtual hackathon

It was decided to start by a half-day late May in order to establish a roadmap for further meetings, starting with an additional full day at the beginning of June. The agenda for the May meeting could include:
    - Subjects on which to work
    - Precise roadmap and repartition of responsabilities for each subject
    - Organization of work, including tools to use

The May meeting will take place Monday 25 May afternoon. The June hackathon will be on June 16, with a backup option on June 18.
